# Yen For the Future

In this project I simulated an analysis for Yen foreign exchange in an effort to predict the future movement of the currency. In order to accomplish this I used Time Series Forecasting and Linear Regression Forecasting. 

## Timer Series Analysis
In the time series analysis notebook, I took the historical Dollar-Yen exchange rate futures data and applied time series analysis and modeling to determine if there were any insigths in the forecasting. The steps I took to come to my insights included: Decomposing the data using a Hodrick-Prescott filter, forecasting returns using an ARMA Model, forecasting the settle price using an ARIMA Model, and forecasting volatility with GARCH. I found that now would not be a good time to buy the yen, because the most statistically significant model was the garch model which measured volatility. This model forecasted volatility increasing. While the other models forecasted price increasing and returns remaining positive, they were less statistically significant, so I would try to make those models more statistically significant before drawing any concrete insights from them.

## Linear Regression
In the linear regression notebook, I built a Scikit-Learn linear regression model to predict Yen futures returns with lagged Yen futures returns and categorical calendar seasonal effects. The steps I took to come to my insights included: Data preparation (creating Returns and Lagged Returns and splitting the data into training and testing data), fitting a Linear Regression Model, making predictions using the testing data, and determining Out-of-sample performance and In-sample performance. This model performed better on out of sample data because the root mean squared error for out of sample was closer to zero than the in sample root mean squared error (0.4 vs 0.7).
